Conley.
rol1f3
Hello Brian.
rol1f4
Nice to see you again.
rol2f1
Brian: Nice to see you too.
rol2f2
Brain: It certainly has.
It’s paid my mortgage, definitely.
I mean, it’s not far from where I live,
it’s just up the motorway, and I love this
theatre.
I’ve got some great memories of here.
Back in the 90s, especially, when I was doing
panto with Britt Eckland, that was a really
good time.
Radio interviewer: You mention panto, which
has, of course an element of audience participation
and rowdiness.
How do you cope with that?
Is it something that’s difficult for you?
Brian: It is difficult, especially with the
kids, you never know what they’re going
to come up with.
But I’m up for that.
Some theatres don’t like the kids to come
up on stage any more, they just finish with
a musical number and that’s it, but I think
that’s a shame, especially now I’ve got
kids of my own.
What a lot of theatres do now is get the parents
to come down and stand in the aisles, and
if there’s a rowdy kid, we bring the parent
up, and that puts the onus on the parent to
keep the kid in check.
But I like all that participation.
It’s what gives it energy and makes it live.
Radio interviewer: You do a range of different
shows though, don’t you?
Brian: Yes, I do musical theatre and corporate
work as well as panto, but panto’s the best.
It plays to my strengths, you know.
I like the fact that it’s got everything,
singing, dancing, comedy, and if there’s
something in the papers that day, I can pick
up on it and put it in the show.
And that’s something that only I can do,
as the comedy character.
The other characters in the show can’t diverge
from the script so much.
But I can ad lib.
It’s great.
When I work in musical theatre, i can’t
do that.
I have to stick to the script.
Radio Interviewer: So where did it all begin,
this comedy career?
When was your first time on stage?
Brian: The first time I was on stage was when
I was two.
I was at this holiday camp and my mum and
dad lost me in the dance hall.
Then they heard loads of people laughing and
they saw me up on stage making a fool of myself.
That was it after that.
I was hooked.
But what has also driven me is the fact that
I was dyslexic.
I found it difficult to keep up at school,
because my writing was bad, so I naturally
became the class clown, the school joker.
But I was always a good singer, and singing
was always my first love.
Comedy came later.
When I started doing clubs when I was 17,
I found that you get paid more for doing comedy
than you do for singing.
Radio Interviewer: And you still do comedy
now.
Brian: Yeah, I do.
Most of the comedy I do now is actually corporate
work.
You know, these big work events, where there’s
free food and drink.
It’s very lucrative, but it’s a tough
crowd.
They’ve got a load of free alcohol and they
get boozed up.
There’s a big demand for it these days,
but a lot of famous comedians can’t do it.
I’ve learnt how to handle it over the years,
and I’ve got an answer for every situation
now.
I had to fall into it really, it pays the
mortgage.
Radio Interviewer: And you still get nerves?
Brian: A guy once said to me that it doesn’t
get any easier.
I dismissed that.
I used to reckon that as I got older and more
experienced I’d be more relaxed and I wouldn’t
get so nervous.
But I realise that he was right.
I want to do well, and that effects how you
feel before the performance.
Radio Interviewer: Brain Conley, thank you
very much.